============================
DW: APPROVED
============================


Authors: Charles Zhang, Shantanu Jha, Gabriel Marks

Project Description

	Our project is intended to be a Science Bowl-style simulator. One computer
	will act as a server, and will have a set of Science Bowl questions that
	will be used for games. This computer will also keep track of the scores,
	additional game info, and either run a moderator interface or choose another
	user as moderator and run a player interface. 
	
	The rules of SciBowl are as follows:
  
	  - There are two types of questions and two forms of questions:
		Types:
		- Toss-Up Questions: Any player can buzz in on a Toss-Up question. If
		  the player answers the question correctly, then their team gets the
		  bonus question. There is no collaboration on Toss-Up questions.
		  Players have a maximum of 5 seconds to buzz-in and answer a Toss-Up
		  question after it is fully read, and 4 points will be awarded for a
		  correct answer. After buzzing in, players have up to two seconds to
		  begin answering, otherwise it is a "stall" and incorrect.
		- Bonus Questions: The team whose player answer the Toss-Up question
		  correctly gets read the Bonus question. Teams can collaborate on Bonus
		  questions, but their Captain must give an answer before 20 seconds
		  have passed after the question is fully read. Teams will get a 5
		  second warning and 10 points if they answer this correctly.
		Forms: Toss-Up and Bonus questions can be of both forms
		- Multiple Choice: These questions have 4 correct answers, labelled "W",
		  "X", "Y", and "Z". To answer these correctly, the player must either
		  answer with the exact correct answer, the correct letter, or both.
		  E.g.: The answer is "W) Cats". The player must answer "W", "W) Cats",
		  or "Cats". "Cat" would be incorrect. 
		- Short Answer: These questions have no listed answers. Sometimes they
		  may be a little looser in what is acceptable. Also, there maybe be
		  questions in which the answer is choosing from a list of given thigns.
		  E.g.: "By name or number, please choose what is an element: 1) Steel
		  2) Copper 3) Nickel" The answer would be "2,3 or Copper, Nickel". 
	  - Gameplay
		- First the Toss-Up question is read to every player. If correctly
		  answered by a player, then their team gets the bonus question and 4
		  points. If a player answers incorrectly, then no one else from their
		  team can buzz-in again for that Toss-Up.
		- Interrupts: Each question has a Subject categorization and Form
		  categorization out of "Biology, Physics, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
		  Earth and Space Science, and Energy". At the beginning of each toss-up
		  question the Subject category is read. If a player buzzes in after that
		  category is read, then they must answer. If the player buzzed in before
		  the question is fully read and gets it incorrect for whatever reason, 
		  then the other team is awarded 4 points and the question is fully re-read 
		  if no player from the other team has answered yet. 
		- Bonus questions will be awarded to the team of the player who answered
		  the toss-up questino correctly. These are worth 10 points and will be
		  awarded after the captain of the team answers correctly before 20
		  seconds is up. Teams can collaborate.
		- If the captain leaves the game, either the team can chat and decide on
		  a new captain and the moderator will see this chat and officially
		  choose the new captain, or the moderator will just choose the new
		  captain with no insight from the team. 

	Whenever a question is answered, the server will process the question. The client that answered the question will be recorded, and info about the 
	question (the answer, who answered, if it's correct) will be sent to all clients. This will allow everyone to know the current state of the game, 
	like in real Science Bowl. 

User Interface
	- One user will begin the round, and choose the maximum sizes of the
	  teams. After the game has started, players will first choose their username 
	  and then be placed in a chat with other players to determine their allegiance
	  to either be Red (R) or Green (G). Then the rules will be stated,
	  and after everyone consents by pressing enter, or players that want to
	  leave exit, the game begins. The user that began the round will be called
	  the moderator. The moderator will not participate in the round, but
	  instead verify if questions are correct, and regulate other rules. Once a
	  toss-up question or bonus question is answered, the moderator will recieve
	  the player's answer, allegiance, and the correct stored answer for the
	  question. They will then decided if the question is correct or incorrect.
	  Even if the question is multiple choice and exactly correct, the moderator
	  will be prompted to verify the answer and will be able to override it if
	  they wish.
	  Moderators will also see quesitons as they appear to the users,
	  and see the current score, and the total connected players and their
	  allegiances. 
	- Users will at all times see the current score, their allegiance, and the
	  players on each team. On toss-up questions, the question will be "read"
	  by having each word appear with delay on the screen of every player's
	  terminal. After a player buzzes in, the question will stop reading
	  if it is in the middle of a question. The player that buzzed in will be
	  prompted to answer with a proper answer before a stall is called. We will
	  decide later on whether we want to have a set time limit to anwering
	  toss-up questions after a player buzzes in or something more adaptable. 
	- If a toss-up question is fully read, then the bonus question will be read
	  to the team whose player answered the toss-up correctly. The bonus
	  question will be read to all players. However, only the captain of the  team 
	  that can asnwer will be able to do so. The team that is to answer the
	  bonus question will be given a chat interface under the question where
	  they can talk to each other and discuss the question. Whether this chat
	  interface be visible to the other team is something we will decide later.
	  The captain will then press a special key and then begin to answer the 
	  bonus question. The special key must be pressed before 20 seconds is
	  called, and teams will be given a 5 second warning. Captains must then
	  answer the question in a set time limit after pressing the special key,
	  otherwise it is a stall and incorrect. 10 points will be awarded to
	  correct answers, determined by either the moderator or program.
	- We may display a timer for Toss-Up and/or Bonus questions. 
	- If a player has a scientific or administrative challenge, they will have
	  time to challenge the question by pressing a special key after the set of
	  toss-up and/or bonus questions is fully read and before the next set
	  begins. There will be a 5 second interveral between each set of questions
	  to do so. Players can challenge using a special key, and teams will only
	  be allowed 2 incorrect scientific challenges. 
	- If they wish, players can also bring up the rules by pressing a special
	  key at anytime in the game. 

Technical Design

	  We'll be using network protocols (TCP, UDP, etc) to handle communication between the server computer and the clients (players), with process 
	  management to deal with multiple clients. We'll have a file of questions, which the server will read into a buffer (using file I/O) at the 
	  beginning of the game. The contents of the buffer will be parsed and stored into arrays (or linked lists involving a "questions" struct). As the 
	  game progresses, the questions will be taken from the array (or linked list), sent to the clients (once again using multiple processes). The client
	  will then print out the question on each player's terminal screen. Basic I/O, such as fgets, will be used to handle player input in the terminal, 
	  like interrupts or answers. The server will use semaphores to control when players can answer (e.g Player 1 interrupts first to answer, Player 2 
	  and Player 3 interrupted later but cannot answer while Player 1 is answering). 

	  Responsibilities (subject to change):
	  	  
		  - Charles: Implementing network, process management, server work (file I/O, question parsing/storing, etc)     

		  - Shantanu: Implementing network, process management, client work (player interrupting/answering, displaying the questions, etc)  
		  
		  - Gabe: Implementing network, process management, semaphore control  

	 Algorithms: none

Additional Modes:
	- Toss-Up only games, where unlimited players can join, and there are no
	  Bonus questions nor teams. Instead of a score showing points for each
	  team, there will instead be a leader board of points for individual
	  players. We may read bonus questions as toss-up questions, which we would
	  notify players of before reading the question. Bonus as a toss-up
	  questions would have an answering time limit of 20 seconds instead of 5. 

Nota Bene: We already have a CSV of over 1000 pairs of Toss-Up and Bonus
questions that we made collectively through a question collection program in
SciBowl. 

Project Timeline (rough estimate) 

	- 1/13/17: Finished implementing the network/process management between the server and clients. 
	
	- 1/15/17: Get the server to send the questions and the client to display the questions.

	- 1/18/17: Implement SciBowl interface and answering system (semaphore control).

	- 1/20/17: Additional features like challenges or additional modes will be
			   implemented and bugs will be solved.
